Let's start out with relational databases.
Relational databases are still a great fit for applications that
know the structure of the data being stored, and that structure
isn't expected to change very often.
Relational databases best support tabular data that needs
to be recorded in rows, then aggregated,
sorted, and reported. As you start trying to store nontabular data, like
JSON or XML documents, and binary data, like images,
audio, and video files, you can do that with a relational database,
but it's not always the best fit.
Some strengths of relational databases include the fact
that they've been around for a while.
It's a mature technology that is familiar to a large number of people
and is relatively easy to learn and understand.
Amazon RDS is a managed relational database service.
So, what does that mean?
Amazon manages the database by taking care of
administrative tasks like provisioning hardware,
maintaining database images for your database instances,
and performing updates and patches.
This allows you to focus on developing your application
instead of administering the database.
When you launch a database,
you'll select an instance size based on your anticipated compute, memory,
and I/O needs.
You can choose a small instance and enjoy cost savings for
applications that have a light database load or choose a large
instance for applications that need higher performance.
As your application changes, you can easily upgrade your database to
run on a larger instance size with more resources. RDS has several
helpful features for storage management.
You can use storage autoscaling to automatically increase your available
storage space as you fill it up so you don't have to worry about running
out of disk space, and you can also schedule backups and restore backups
to new instances in just a few steps.
RDS supports running instances in multiple availability zones,
allowing you to create high‑availability database clusters.
Enabling these clusters is a simple configuration so you don't
have to spend hours setting up and testing replication between
your instances. You can create an RDS instance using several
different database engines, including Amazon Aurora,
PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle Database, and Microsoft SQL Server.
This makes it easy to move your existing relational databases to the
cloud without having to change your database engine.
We'll talk more about costs in another module, but be aware that each database engine has its own pricing model.